# Shared-Memory
A direct inter-process communication using shared memory and an optimization using multithreading

This is a programming model called worker/reducer implemented on linux. This model is used to concurrently count the occurrences of CMPS, CCE, ECE in a large file: input.txt which consists of 320000 lines.
1. The main process takes a command line argument denoting the number of splits N. For example,
if the number of splits is equal to 4, the file has to be split into 4 parts each consisting of 320000/4
lines. Then, the main process has to spawn a new process that does the split, and then it waits for the termination of its child. 
2. The main process creates N shared memories of size equal to 4 × sizeof(long).
3. The main process creates N worker processes and 3 reducer processes.
4. Worker process i counts the occurrences of CMPS, CCE, ECE in split i (i.e., outputi). When it is done, it writes 999 (which      is a special flag denoting the termination of the worker) and the occurrence of CMPS, occurrence of CCE and occurrence of ECE in shared memory SMi, respectively.
5. First (resp. second and third) reducer process sums the occurrence of CMPS (resp. CCE and ECE) generated by all the worker processes. For this, it is has to keep checking the first flag to be equal to 999 before reading the corresponding occurrence of CMPS (resp. CCE and ECE).

Optimization:
In order to improve the performance of the above implementation, we'll use multi-threading to eliminate (1) the creation of the shared memory and use instead global variable, and (2) the split phase done by the first child process. For this, when the main process takes the number of splits N:

• We create N threads modeling mappers, and 3 threads modeling reducers.

• Each mapper has to open the original file; then, uses lseek to
explicitly set the file’s offset used by the file descriptor.


Bench.c runs both methods and stores their runtime in 2 different files temp.txt and temp2.txt then merge them in bench.txt.
It uses the values of N: 1, 2, 4, 8.
